CHAPTER IV.
Sounds.
But while we are confined to books, though the most select and classic, and read only
particular written languages, which are themselves but dialects and provincial, we are in danger
of forgetting the language which all things and events speak without metaphor, which alone
is copious and standard.
Much is published, but little printed.
The rays which stream through the shutter will be no longer remembered when the shutter
is wholly removed.
No method nor discipline can supersede the necessity of being forever on the alert.
What is a course of history or philosophy or poetry, no matter how well selected, or
the best society, or the most admirable routine of life compared with the discipline of looking
always at what is to be seen?
Will you be a reader, a student merely, or a seer?
Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on into futurity.
I did not read books the first summer.
I hoed beans.
Nay, I often did better than this.
There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment
to any work, whether of the head or hands.
I love a broad margin to my life.
Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway,
from sunrise till noon, wrapped in a reverie, amidst the pines and hickories and sumacs,
in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around or flitted noiseless
the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, with the noise of some traveller's
wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time.
I grew in those seasons like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of
the hands would have been.
They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance.
I realized what the Orientals mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works.
For the most part, I minded not how the hours went.
The day advanced as if to light some work of mine.
It was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing memorable is accomplished.
Instead of singing like the birds, I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune.
As the sparrow had its trill sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my chuckle
or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest.
My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they
minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock.
For I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that for yesterday, today, and
tomorrow, they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing
backward for yesterday, forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.
This was sheer idleness to my fellow townsmen, no doubt, but if the birds and flowers had
tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting.
A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true.
The natural day is very calm and will hardly reprove his indolence.
I had this advantage at least in my mode of life over those who were obliged to look abroad
for amusement to society and the theatre, that my life itself was become my amusement
and never ceased to be novel.
It was a drama of many scenes and without an end.
If we were always indeed getting our living and regulating our lives according to the
and best mode we had learned, we should never be troubled with ennui.
Follow your genius closely enough, and it will not fail to show you a fresh prospect
every hour.
Housework was a pleasant pastime.
When my floor was dirty I rose early and, setting all of my furniture out of doors on
the grass, bed and bedstead making but one budget, dashed water on the floor and sprinkled
white sand from the pond on it, and then with a broom scrubbed it clean and white.
And by the time the villagers had broken their fast the morning sun had dried my house sufficiently
to allow me to move in again, and my meditations were almost uninterrupted.
It was pleasant to see my whole household effects out on the grass, making a little
pile like a gypsy's pack, and my three-legged table, from which I did not remove the books
and pen and ink, standing amid the pines and hickory.
They seemed glad to get out themselves, and as if unwilling to be brought in.
I was sometimes tempted to stretch an awning over them and take my seat there.
It was worth the while to see the sun shine on these things, and hear the free wind blow
on them.
So much more interesting most familiar objects look out of doors than in the house.
A bird sits on the next bough, life everlasting grows under the table, and blackberry vines
run round its legs.
Pinecones, chestnut burrs, and strawberry leaves are strewn about.
It looks as if this was the way these forms came to be transferred to our furniture—to
tables, chairs, and bedsteads—because they once stood in their midst.
My house was on the side of a hill, immediately on the edge of the larger wood, in the midst
of a young forest of pitch pines and hickories, and half a dozen rods from the pond, to which
a narrow footpath led down the hill.
In my front yard grew the strawberry, blackberry, and life everlasting, John's wort, and golden
rod, shrub oaks, and sand cherry, blueberry, and ground nut.
Near the end of May the sand cherry, Serasus pumila, adorned the sides of the path with
its delicate flowers arranged in umbels cylindrically about its short stems, which last in the fall
weighed down with good-sized and handsome cherries, fell over in wreaths like rays on
every side.
I tasted them out of compliment to nature, though they were scarcely palatable.
The sumac, rus glabra, grew luxuriantly about the house, pushing up through the embankment
which I had made, and growing five or six feet the first season.
Its broad pinnate tropical leaf was pleasant, though strange to look on.
The large buds, suddenly pushing out late in the spring from dry sticks which had seemed
to be dead, developed themselves as by magic into graceful green and tender boughs, an
inch in diameter.
And sometimes, as I sat at my window, so heedlessly did they grow and tax their weak joints, I
heard a fresh and tender bow suddenly fall like a fan to the ground, when there was not
a breath of air stirring, broken off by its own weight.
In August the large masses of berries which when in flower had attracted many wild bees
gradually assumed their bright velvety crimson hue, and by their weight again bent down and
broke the tender limbs.
As I sit at my window this summer afternoon, hawks are circling about my clearing.
The tantivi of wild pigeons, flying by two and threes athwart my view, or perching restless
on the white pine boughs behind my house, gives a voice to the air.
A fish-hawk dimples the glassy surface of the pond and brings up a fish.
A mink steals out of the marsh before my door and seizes a frog by the shore.
The sedge is bending under the weight of the reed-birds flitting hither and thither, and
for the last half-hour I have heard the rattle of railroad cars, now dying away and then
reviving like the beat of a partridge, conveying travelers from Boston to the country.
For I did not live so out of the world as that boy who, as I hear, was put out to a
farmer in the east part of the town, but ere long ran away and came home again, quite down
at the heel and homesick.
He had never seen such a dull and out-of-the-way place.
The folks were all gone off.
Why, you couldn't even hear the whistle.
I doubt if there is such a place in Massachusetts now.
In truth our village has become a butt for one of those fleet railroad shafts, and o'er
our peaceful plain its soothing sound is Concord.
The Fitchburg Railroad touches the pond about a hundred rods south of where I dwell.
I usually go to the village along its causeway, and am, as it were, related to society by
this link.
The men on the freight trains who go over the whole length of the road bow to me as
to an old acquaintance.
They pass me so often, and apparently they take me for an employee, and so I am.
I too would fain be a track-reparer somewhere in the orbit of the earth.
The whistle of the locomotive penetrates my woods summer and winter, sounding like the
scream of a hawk sailing over some farmer's yard, informing me that many restless city
merchants are arriving within the circle of the town, or adventurous country traders from
the other side.
As they come under one horizon, they shout their warning to get off the track to the
other, heard sometimes through the circles of two towns.
Here come your groceries, country, your rations, countrymen, nor is there any man so independent
on his farm that he can say them nay.
And here's your pay for them, screams the countryman's whistle, timber like long battering
rams going twenty miles an hour against the city's walls, and chairs enough to seat all
the weary and heavy laden that dwell within them.
With such huge and lumbering civility the country hands a chair to the city.
All the Indian huckleberry hills are stripped, all the cranberry meadows are raked into the
city.
Up comes the cotton, down goes the woven cloth, up comes the silk, down goes the woolen, up
comes the books, but down goes the wit that writes them.
When I meet the engine with its train of cars moving off with planetary motion, or rather
like a comet, for the beholder knows not if with that velocity and with that direction
it will ever revisit this system, since its orbit does not look like a returning curve.
With its steam cloud, like a banner streaming behind it in golden and silver wreaths, like
many a downy cloud which I have seen high in the heavens, unfolding its masses to the
light, as if this travelling demigod, this cloud-compeller, would ere long take the sunset
sky for the livery of his train.
When I hear the iron horse make the hills echo with his snort-like thunder, shaking
the earth with his feet and breathing fire and smoke from his nostrils.
What kind of winged horse or fiery dragon they will put into the new mythology I don't know.
It seems as if the earth had got a race now worthy to inhabit it.
If all were as it seems, and men made the elements their servants for noble ends, if
the cloud that hangs over the engine were the perspiration of heroic deeds, or as beneficent
as that which floats over the farmer's fields, then the elements and nature herself would
cheerfully accompany men on their errands and be their escort.
I watched the passage of the morning cars with the same feeling that I do the rising
of the sun, which is hardly more regular.
Their train of clouds stretching far behind and rising higher and higher, going to heaven
while the cars are going to Boston, conceals the sun for a minute and casts my distant
field into the shade, a celestial train beside which the petty train of cars which hugs the
earth is but the barb of the spear.
The stabler of the iron horse was up early this winter morning by the light of the stars
amid the mountains to fodder and harness his steed.
Fire too was awakened thus early, to put the vital heat in him and get him off, if the
enterprise were as innocent as it is early.
If the snow lies deep they strap on him snowshoes, and, with the giant plough, plough a furrow
from the mountains to the seaboard, in which the cars, like a following drill-barrow, sprinkle
all the restless men and floating merchandise in the country for seed.
All day the fire-steed flies over the country, stopping only that his master may rest, and
I am awakened by his tramp and defiant snort at midnight, when in some remote glen in the
woods he fronts the elements encased in ice and snow, and he will reach his stall only
with the morning star, to start once more in his travels without rest or slumber.
Or perchance that evening I hear him in his stable, blowing off the superfluous energy
of the day, that he may calm his nerves and cool his liver and brain for a few hours of
iron slumber.
If the enterprise were as heroic and commanding as it is protracted and unwearied.
Far through unfrequented woods on the confines of towns, where once only the hunter penetrated
by day, in the darkest night dart these bright saloons, without the knowledge of their inhabitants.
This moment stopping at some brilliant station-house in town or city, where a social crowd is gathered,
the next in the dismal swamp, scaring the owl and fox.
The startings and arrivals of the cars are now the epochs in the village day.
They go and come with such regularity and precision, and their whistle can be heard
so far that the farmers set their clocks by them, and thus one well-conducted institution
regulates a whole country.
Have not men improved somewhat in punctuality since the railroad was invented?
Did they not talk and think faster in the depot than they did in the stage-office?
There is something electrifying in the atmosphere of the former place.
I have been astonished at the miracles it has wrought, that some of my neighbors, who
I should have prophesied, once for all, would never get to Boston by so prompt a conveyance,
are on hand when the bell rings.
To do things, railroad fashion, is now the byword, and it is worth the while to be warned
so often and so sincerely by any power to get off its track.
There is no stopping to read the riot act, no firing over the heads of the mob in this
case.
We have constructed a fate, an atropos, that never turns aside.
Let that be the name of your engine.
Men are advertised that at a certain hour and minute these bolts will be shot toward
particular points of the compass, yet it interferes with no man's business, and the children go
to school on the other track.
We live the steadier for it.
We are all educated thus to be sons of tell.
The air is full of invisible bolts.
Every path but your own is the path of fate.
Keep on your own track, then.
What recommends commerce to me is its enterprise and bravery.
It does not clasp its hands and pray to Jupiter.
I see these men every day go about their business with more or less courage and content, doing
more even than they suspect, and perchance better employed than they could have consciously
devised.
I am less affected by their heroism, who stood up for half an hour in the front line at Buena
Vista, than by the steady and cheerful valour of the men who inhabit the snowplough for
their winter quarters, who have not merely the three o'clock in the morning courage,
which Bonaparte thought was the rarest, but whose courage does not go to rest so early,
who go to sleep only when the storm sleeps or the sinews of their iron steed are frozen.
On this morning of the great snow, perchance, which is still raging and chilling men's blood,
I bear the muffled tone of their engine bell from out the fog bank of their chilled breath,
which announces that the cars are coming.
Without long delay, notwithstanding the veto of a New England northeast snowstorm, and
I behold the ploughmen, covered with snow and rime, their heads peering above the mould
board which is turning down other than daisies in the nests of field mice, like boulders
of the Sierra Nevada that occupy an outside place in the universe.
Commerce is unexpectedly confident and serene, alert, adventurous, and unwearied.
It is very natural in its methods withal, far more so than many fantastic enterprises
and sentimental experiments, and hence its singular success.
I am refreshed and expanded when the freight train rattles past me, and I smell the stores
which go dispensing their odours all the way from Long Wharf to Lake Champlain, reminding
me of foreign parts, of coral reefs and Indian oceans and tropical climes and the extent
of the globe.
I feel more like a citizen of the world at the sight of the palm-leaf which will cover
so many flaxen New England heads the next summer, the manila hemp and coconut husks,
the old junk, gunny bags, scrap iron, and rusty nails.
This carload of torn sails is more legible and interesting now than if they should be
wrought into paper and printed books.
Who can write so graphically the history of the storms they have weathered as these rents
have done?
They are proof-sheets which need no correction.
Here goes lumber from the main woods, which did not go out to sea in the last freshet,
risen four dollars on the thousand because of what did go out or was split up.
Pine, spruce, cedar, first, second, third, and fourth qualities, so lately all of one
quality, to wave over the bear, and moose, and caribou.
Next rolls Thomaston lime, a prime lot, which will get far among the hills before it gets
slacked, these rags and bales of all hues and qualities, the lowest condition to which
cotton and linen descend, the final result of dress, of patterns which are now no longer
cried up, unless it be in Milwaukee, as those splendid articles, English, French, or American
prints, ginghams, muslins, etc., gathered from all quarters both of fashion and poverty,
going to become paper of one color, or a few shades only, on which forsooth will be written
tales of real life, high and low, and founded on fact.
This closed car smells of salt-fish, the strong New England and commercial scent, reminding
me of the grand banks and the fisheries.
Who has not seen a salt-fish thoroughly cured for this world, so that nothing can spoil
it, and putting the perseverance of the saints to blush?
With which you may sweep or pave the streets and split your kindlings, and the teamster
shelter himself and his lading against sun, wind, and rain behind it, and the trader,
as a concord trader once did, hang it up by his door for a sign when he commences business,
until at last his oldest customer cannot tell surely whether it be animal, vegetable, or
mineral, and yet it shall be as pure as a snowflake, and if it be but put into a pot
and boiled will come out an excellent done fish for a Saturday's dinner.
Next Spanish hides, with the tails still preserving their twist, and the angle of elevation they
the oxen that wore them were careering over the pampas of the Spanish main, a type of
all obstinacy, and evincing how almost hopeless and incurable are all constitutional vices.
I confess that, practically speaking, when I have learned a man's real disposition, I
have no hopes of changing it for the better or worse in this state of existence.
As the Orientals say, a cur's tail may be warmed and pressed and bound round with ligatures,
and after a twelve years' labor bestowed upon it, still it will retain its natural form.
The only effectual cure for such inveteracies as these tails exhibit is to make glue of
them, which I believe is what is usually done with them, and then they will stay put and
stick.
Here is a hog's head of molasses, or of brandy, directed to John Smith, Cuttingsville, Vermont,
some trader among the Green Mountains, who imports for the farmers near his clearing,
and now perchance stands over his bulkhead and thinks of the last arrivals on the coast,
how they may affect the price for him, telling his customers this moment, as he has told
them twenty times before this morning, that he expects some by the next train of prime
quality.
It is advertised in the Cuttingsville Times.
While these things go up, other things come down.
Warned by the whizzing sound, I look up from my book and see some tall pine, hewn on far
northern hills, which has winged its way over the Green Mountains and the Connecticut, shot
like an arrow through the township within ten minutes, and scarce another eye beholds
it going, to be the mast of some great admiral.
And hark, here comes the cattle train, bearing the cattle of a thousand hills, sheep cots,
stables, and cow yards in the air, drovers with their sticks and shepherd boys in the
mountain pastures, whirled along like leaves blown from the mountains by the September
Gale.
The air is filled with the bleating of calves and sheep and the hustling of oxen, as if
a pastoral valley were going by.
When the old bell-weather at the head rattles his bell, the mountains do indeed skip like
rams, and the little hills like lambs.
A carload of drovers, too, in the midst, on a level with their droves now, their vocation
gone, but still clinging to their useless sticks as their badge of office.
But their dogs, where are they?
It is a stampede to them.
They are quite thrown out, they have lost the scent.
Methinks I hear them barking behind the Peterborough hills, or panting up the western slope of
the Green Mountains.
They will not be in at the death.
Their vocation, too, is gone.
Their fidelity and sagacity are below par now.
They will slink back to their kennels in disgrace, or perchance run wild and strike a league
with the wolf and the fox.
So is your pastoral life world past and away.
But the bell rings, and I must get off the track and let the cars go by.
What's the railroad to me?
I never go to see where it ends.
It fills a few hollows and makes banks for the swallows.
It sets the sand a-blowing, and the blackberries a-growing.
But I cross it like a cart-path in the woods.
I will not have my eyes put out and my ears spoiled by its smoke and steam and hissing.
Now that the cars are gone by and all the restless world with them, and the fishes in
the pond no longer feel their rumbling, I am more alone than ever.
For the rest of the long afternoon, perhaps, my meditations are interrupted only by the
faint rattle of a carriage or team along the distant highway.
Sometimes, on Sundays, I heard the bells, the Lincoln, Acton, Bedford, or Concord bell,
when the wind was favorable, a faint, sweet, and, as it were, natural melody, worth importing
into the wilderness.
At a sufficient distance over the woods this sound acquires a certain vibratory hum, as
if the pine needles in the horizon were the strings of a harp which it swept.
All sound heard at the greatest possible distance produces one and the same effect, a vibration
of the universal lyre, just as the intervening atmosphere makes a distant ridge of earth
interesting to our eyes by the azure tint it imparts to it.
There came to me in this case a melody which the air had strained, and which had conversed
with every leaf and needle of the wood, that portion of the sound which the elements had
taken up and modulated and echoed from veil to veil.
The echo is, to some extent, an original sound, and therein is the magic and charm of it.
It is not merely a repetition of what was worth repeating in the bell, but partly the
voice of the wood, the same trivial words and notes sung by a wood-nymph.
At evening the distant lowing of some cow in the horizon beyond the woods sounded sweet
and melodious, and at first I would mistake it for the voices of certain minstrels, by
I was sometimes serenaded, who might be straying over hill and dale, but soon I was not unpleasantly
disappointed when it was prolonged into the cheap and natural music of the cow.
I do not mean to be satirical, but to express my appreciation of those youth's singing when
I state that I perceived clearly that it was akin to the music of the cow, and they were
at length one articulation of nature.
Regularly at half-past seven in one part of the summer, after the evening train had gone
by, the Whippoorwills chanted their Vespers for half an hour, sitting on a stump by my
door or upon the ridge-pole of the house.
They would begin to sing almost with as much precision as a clock.
Within five minutes of a particular time, referred to the setting of the sun every evening,
I had a rare opportunity to become acquainted with their habits.
Sometimes I heard four or five at once in different parts of the wood, by accident one
a bar behind another, and so near me that I distinguish not only the clock after each
but often that singular buzzing sound like a fly in a spider's web, only proportionally
louder.
Sometimes one would circle round and round me in the woods a few feet distance as if
tethered by a string, when probably I was near its eggs.
They sang at intervals throughout the night, and were again as musical as ever, just before
and about the dawn.
When other birds are still, the screech-owls take up the strain, like mourning women with
their ancient oolooloo.
Their dismal scream is truly Benjonsonian, wise midnight hags.
It is no honest and blunt to-wit-to-woo of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn
graveyard ditty, the mutual consolations of suicide-lovers remembering the pangs and the
delights of supernal love in the infernal groves.
Yet I love to hear their wailing, their doleful responses trilled along the woodside, reminding
me sometimes of music and singing birds, as if it were the dark and tearful side of music,
the regrets and sighs that would fain be sung.
They are the spirits, the low spirits and melancholy forebodings of fallen souls that
once in human shape night-walked the earth and did the deeds of darkness, now expiating
their sins with their wailing hymns or threnodes in the scenery of their transgressions.
They give me a new sense of the variety and capacity of that nature which is our common
dwelling.
Oh, oh, that I never had been born, size one on this side of the pond, and circles with
despair to some new perch on the grey oaks, then, that I had never been born, echoes another
on the farther side with tremulous sincerity, and born comes faintly from far in the Lincoln
woods.
I was also serenaded by a hooting owl, near at hand you could fancy it the most melancholy
sound in nature, as if she meant by this to stereotype and make permanent in her choir
the dying moans of a human being, some poor weak relic of mortality who has left hope
behind and howls like an animal, yet with human sobs on entering the dark valley, made
more awful by a certain gurgling melodiousness.
I find myself beginning with the letters G-L when I try to imitate it, expressive of a
mind which has reached the gelatinous, mildewy stage in the mortification of all healthy
and courageous thought.
It reminded me of ghouls and idiots and insane howlings.
But now one answers from far woods in a strain made really melodious by distance, and indeed
for the most part of it, suggested only by pleasing associations, whether heard by day
or night, summer or winter.
I rejoice that there are owls.
Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men.
It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting
a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized.
They represent the stark twilight and unsatisfied thoughts which all have.
All day the sun has shone on the surface of some savage swamp where the single spruce
stands hung with uznia lichens, and small hawks circulate above, and the chickadee lisps
amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit-skulk beneath.
But now a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to
express the meaning of nature there.
Late in the evening I heard the distant rumbling of wagons over bridges, a sound heard farther
than almost any other at night.
The baying of dogs, and sometimes again the lowing of some disconsolate cow in a distant
barnyard.
In the meanwhile all the shore rang with the trump of bullfrogs, the sturdy spirits of
ancient wine-bibers and was-sailors, still unrepentant, trying to sing a catch in their
Stygian lake.
If the Walden nymphs will pardon the comparison, for though there are almost no weeds, there
are frogs there, who would fain keep up the hilarious rules of their old festal tables,
though their voices have waxed hoarse and solemnly grave, mocking at mirth, and the
distend their ponches, and sweet intoxication never comes to drown the memory of the past,
but mere saturation and water-loggedness and distension.
The almost aldermanic, with his chin upon a heart-leaf which serves for a napkin to
ruling chaps, under this northern shore quaffs a deep draught of the once scorned water,
and passes round the cup with ejaculation, tronk, tronk, tronk, and straightway comes
over the water from some distant cove the same password repeated, where the next in
seniority and girth has gulped down to his mark, and when this observance has made the
circuit of the shores, there ejaculates the master of ceremonies with satisfaction, tronk,
and each in his turn repeats the same down to the least distended, leakiest, and flabbiest
paunched, that there be no mistake, and then the howl goes round again and again until
the sun disperses the morning mist, and only the patriarch is not under the pond, but vainly
bellowing tronk from time to time, and pausing for a reply.
I am not sure that I ever heard the sound of cock crowing from my clearing, and I thought
that it might be worth a while to keep a cockerel for his music merely as a singing-bird.
The note of this once wild Indian pheasant is certainly the most remarkable of any birds,
and if they could be naturalized without being domesticated, it would soon become the most
famous sound in our woods, surpassing the clanger of the goose and the hooting of the
owl, and then imagine the cackling of the hens to fill the pauses when their lord's
clarions rested.
No wonder that man added this bird to his tame stock, to say nothing of the eggs and
drumsticks.
To walk in a winter morning in a wood where these birds abounded, their native woods,
and hear the wild cockerels crow on the trees, clear and shrill for miles over the resounding
earth, drowning the feebler notes of other birds—think of it!—it would put nations
on the alert, who would not be early to rise and rise earlier and earlier every successive
day of his life, till he became unspeakably healthy, wealthy, and wise.
This foreign bird's note is celebrated by the poets of all countries, along with the
notes of their native songsters.
All climates agree with brave Chanticleer.
He is more indigenous even than the natives.
His health is ever good.
His lungs are sound.
His spirits never flag.
Even the sailor on the Atlantic and Pacific is awakened by his voice.
But its shrill sound never roused me from my slumbers.
I kept neither dog, cat, cow, pig, nor hens, so that you would have said there was a deficiency
of domestic sounds.
Neither the churn, nor the spinning-wheel, nor even the singing of the kettle, nor the
missing of the urn, and nor children crying to comfort one.
An old-fashioned man would have lost his senses and died of ennui before this.
Not even rats in the wall, for they were starved out, or rather were never baited in.
Only squirrels on the roof and under the floor, a whipper-wheel on the ridge-pole, a blue-jay
screaming beneath the window, a hare or wood-chuck under the house, a screech-owl or a cat-owl
behind it, a flock of wild geese or a laughing-loon on the pond, and a fox to bark in the night.
Not even a lark or an oriole, those mild plantation birds, ever visited my clearing.
No cockerels to crow, nor hens to cackle in the yard.
No yard, but unfenced nature, reaching up to your very sills.
A young forest growing up, under your meadows, and wild sumacs and blackberry vines breaking
through into your cellar, sturdy pitch pines rubbing and creaking against the shingles
for want of room, their roots reaching quite under the house.
Instead of a scuttle or a blind blown off in the gale, a pine tree snapped off or torn
up by the roots behind your house for fuel.
Instead of no path to the front-yard gate in the great snow, no gate, no front-yard,
and no path to the civilized world.